#2024年12月 #12月26日
The hot side of the peltier module needs fan cooling. To reduce the workload of making a fan from scratch, we chose to modify a 115X CPU cooling fan. This fan came with a plastic bracket and aluminum fins, and it is really cheap, but it needed to be flipped over for installation. That is because we want to make it face downward. To cut through the screw washers (which fix the screw on the aluminum part, preventing us to flip the installation side), We tried using pliers (it's a cutting tool for thin plastic) but found we couldn't. Finally, we used aviation snips to cut the washers and successfully flipped and installed the fan.

The electrolyte bottle has a diameter of 57 millimeters. We measured that when filled with 20mL of electrolyte, the height of liquid surface is 15mm, and when filled with 50mL, the height is 45mm. To attach the heating film on the side and leave space for the thermocouple, we need that space because we don't want heat film to interfere with thermocouple, we selected dimensions of 22 to 35 millimeters in width and 140 to 170 millimeters in length. However, these dimensions were only available through custom manufacturing. We contacted 嘉立创 and secured an extremely low price of 20 yuan. We designed our own circuit for a 30 by 150 millimeter heating film, which perfectly matched the bottle's dimensions.

The bottom of the bottle has text patterns. To improve thermal conductivity, we used thermal compound paste instead of thermal silicone grease.  This paste are solid plasticine, can be shaped into relatively thick plates, so it can fill the gap between bottle and aluminum part.
The semiconductor chip and the aluminum part of the fan are pasted together using silicone grease.  Here, silicone grease is better because it provides a higher heat conductivity than thermal compound paste.
The heating film is attached using 3M9448A tape, which also has high thermal conductivity.

Initially, we planned to use a PID control algorithm, but we found that the heating speed with PID was quite slow. We concluded that PID is not suitable for this type of slow control. Then we designed a fuzzy control algorithm that determines power output based on the difference between current and target temperatures. When temperature increase or decrease reaches a bottleneck, it enters boost mode to increase power output. Our algorithm can quickly respond to environmental temperature changes. Another advantage is, the peltier module does work well at some specific pwm value, using fuzzy control, we can directly select these values of 32, 192, etc.